RPCAPD(8)                   System Manager's Manual                  RPCAPD(8)

NAME
       rpcapd  -  capture daemon to be controlled by a remote libpcap applica-
       tion

SYNOPSIS
       rpcapd [ -b address ] [ -p port ] [ -4 ] [ -l host_list ]
               [ -a host,port ] [ -n ] [ -v ] [ -d ] [ -i ]
               [ -D ] [ -s config_file ] [ -f config_file ] [ -S ]
               [ -K ssl_keyfile ] [ -X ssl_certfile ] [ -C ]

DESCRIPTION
       Rpcapd is a daemon (Unix) or service (Win32) that  allows  the  capture
       and filter part of libpcap to be run on a remote system.

       Rpcapd can run in two modes: passive mode (default) and active mode.

       In  passive  mode,  the  client  (e.g.,  a network sniffer) connects to
       rpcapd.  It then sends hem the appropriate commands to start  the  cap-
       ture.

       In  active  mode,  rpcapd  tries  to  establish a connection toward the
       client (e.g., a network sniffer). The client then sends the appropriate
       commands to rpcapd to start the capture.

       Active  mode is useful in case rpcapd is run behind a firewall and can-
       not receive connections from the external world. In this  case,  rpcapd
       can  be  configured  to establish the connection to a given host, which
       has to be configured in order to wait for that connection. After estab-
       lishing  the  connection,  the protocol continues its job in almost the
       same way in both active and passive mode.

Configuration file
       The user can create a configuration file in the same folder of the exe-
       cutable,  and  put  the  configuration  commands in there. In order for
       rpcapd to execute the commands, you have to restart it on  Win32,  i.e.
       the initialization file is parsed only at the beginning). The UNIX ver-
       sion of rpcapd will reread the configuration file when receiving a  HUP
       signel.  In  that  case,  all the existing connections remain in place,
       while the new connections will be created according to the new  parame-
       ters.

       In case a user does not want to create the configuration file manually,
       they can launch rpcapd with the requested  parameters  plus  "-s  file-
       name".   Rpcapd  will  parse  all the parameters and save them into the
       specified configuration file.

Installing rpcapd on Win32
       The remote daemon is installed automatically when  installing  WinPcap.
       The  installation  process  places  the  rpcapd  file  into the WinPcap
       folder.  This file can be executed either from the command line, or  as
       a  service.  For instance, the installation process updates the list of
       available services list and it creates a new item (Remote  Packet  Cap-
       ture  Protocol  v.0  (experimental) ).  To avoid security problems, the
       service is inactive and it has to be started manually (control panel  -
       administrative tools - services - start).

       The  service  has  a  set of "standard" parameters, i.e. it is launched
       with the -d flag (in order to make it run as  a  service)  and  the  -f
       rpcapd.ini flag.

Starting rpcapd on Win32
       The rpcapd executable can be launched directly, i.e.  it can run in the
       foreground as well (not as a daemon/service).  The procedure  is  quite
       simple:  you  have  to invoke the executable from the command line with
       all the requested parameters except  for  the  -d  flag.   The  capture
       server will start in the foreground.

Installing rpcapd on Unix-like systems
       TBD

Starting rpcapd on Unix-like systems
       rpcapd needs sufficient privileges to perform packet capture, e.g.  run
       as root or be owned by root and have suid set. Most  operating  systems
       provide  more  elegant  solutions when run as user than the above solu-
       tions, all of them different.

OPTIONS
       -b address
              Bind to the IP address specified by address (either  numeric  or
              literal).   By  default, rpcapd binds to all local IPv4 and IPv6
              addresses.

       -p port
              Bind to the port specified by port.  By default, rpcapd binds to
              port 2002.

       -4     Listen  only  on  IPv4 addresses.  By default, rpcapd listens on
              both IPv4 and IPv6 addresses.

       -l host_list
              Only allow hosts specified in the host_list argument to  connect
              to  this  server.   host_list  is  a  list  of  host names or IP
              addresses, separated by commas.  We suggest that  you  use  host
              names  rather  than literal IP addresses in order to avoid prob-
              lems with different address families.

       -n     Permit NULL authentication (usually used with -l).

       -a host,port
              Run in active mode, connecting to host host on  port  port.   In
              case port is omitted, the default port (2003) is used.

       -v     Run  in active mode only; by default, if -a is specified, rpcapd
              it accepts passive connections as well.

       -d     Run in daemon mode (UNIX only) or  as  a  service  (Win32  only)
              Warning  (Win32): this switch is provided automatically when the
              service is started from the control panel.

       -i     Run in inetd mode (UNIX only).

       -D     Log debugging messages.

       -s config_file
              Save the current configuration  to  config_file  in  the  format
              specified by rpcapd-config(5).

       -f config_file
              Load  the  current  configuration from config_file in the format
              specified by rpcapd-config(5); all switches specified  from  the
              command line are ignored.

       -h     Print this help screen.

       If  rpcapd was compiled with SSL support, these options are also avail-
       able:

       -S     Require that SSL be used on connections.

       -C     With SSL enabled, XXX - I'm not sure how *fetching* the list  of
              compression mechanisms does anything to compression.

       -S     ssl_keyfile  With  SSL  enabled,  use ssl_keyfile as the SSL key
              file.

       -X     ssl_certfile With SSL enabled, use ssl_certfile as the SSL  cer-
              tificate file.

SEE ALSO
       pcap(3PCAP), rpcapd-config(5)

                                13 January 2019                      RPCAPD(8)
