TCPSLICE(1)                 General Commands Manual                TCPSLICE(1)

NAME
       tcpslice - extract pieces of and/or merge together pcap files

SYNOPSIS
       tcpslice [ -DdlhRrtv ] [ -w file ]
                [ -s types [ -e seconds ] [ -f format ] ]
                [ start-time [ end-time ] ] file ...

DESCRIPTION
       Tcpslice  is  a  program  for extracting portions of packet-trace files
       generated using tcpdump(1)'s -w flag.  It can also  be  used  to  merge
       together several such files, as discussed below.

       The  basic  operation of tcpslice is to copy to stdout all packets from
       its input file(s) whose timestamps fall  within  a  given  range.   The
       starting  and ending times of the range may be specified on the command
       line.  All ranges are inclusive.  The starting  time  defaults  to  the
       earliest  time  of  the first packet in any of the input files; we call
       this the first time.  The ending time defaults to ten years  after  the
       starting  time.   Thus,  the  command tcpslice trace-file simply copies
       trace-file to stdout (assuming the file does not include more than  ten
       years' worth of data).

       There  are  a number of ways to specify times.  The first is using Unix
       timestamps of the form sssssssss.uuuuuu (this is the  format  specified
       by  tcpdump's -tt flag).  For example, 654321098.7654 specifies 38 sec-
       onds and 765,400 microseconds after 8:51PM PDT, Sept. 25, 1990.

       All examples in this manual are given for PDT times, but when  display-
       ing  times and interpreting times symbolically as discussed below, tcp-
       slice uses the local timezone, regardless of the timezone in which  the
       pcap  file  was  generated.   The daylight-savings setting used is that
       which is appropriate for the local timezone at the  date  in  question.
       For  example,  times associated with summer months will usually include
       daylight-savings effects, and those with winter months will not.

       Times may also be specified relative to either  the  first  time  (when
       specifying  a  starting  time) or the starting time (when specifying an
       ending time) by preceding a numeric value in seconds with a  `+'.   For
       example,  a starting time of +200 indicates 200 seconds after the first
       time, and the two arguments +200 +300 indicate from 200  seconds  after
       the first time through 500 seconds after the first time.

       Times  may  also  be  specified in terms of years (y), months (m), days
       (d), hours (h), minutes (m), seconds  (s),  and  microseconds(u).   For
       example,  the  Unix timestamp 654321098.7654 discussed above could also
       be expressed as 1990y9m25d20h51m38s765400u.  2 or 4 digit years may  be
       used; 2 digits can specify years from 1970 to 2069.

       When specifying times using this style, fields that are omitted default
       as follows.  If the omitted field is a unit greater than  that  of  the
       first  specified  field,  then  its value defaults to the corresponding
       value taken from either first time (if the starting time is being spec-
       ified)  or  the  starting time (if the ending time is being specified).
       If the omitted field is a unit less than that of  the  first  specified
       field,  then  it  defaults  to zero (1 for days).  For example, suppose
       that the input file has a first time of the  Unix  timestamp  mentioned
       above,  i.e.,  38  seconds  and  765,400 microseconds after 8:51PM PDT,
       Sept. 25, 1990.  To specify 9:36PM PDT (exactly) on the  same  date  we
       could  use  21h36m.   To specify a range from 9:36PM PDT through 1:54AM
       PDT the next day we could use 21h36m 26d1h54m.

       Relative times can also be specified when  using  the  ymdhmsu  format.
       Omitted  fields  then  default to 0 if the unit of the field is greater
       than that of the first specified field, and to the corresponding  value
       taken  from  either  the first time or the starting time if the omitted
       field's unit is less than that of the first specified field.   Given  a
       first  time of the Unix timestamp mentioned above, 22h +1h10m specifies
       a range from 10:00PM PDT on that date  through  11:10PM  PDT,  and  +1h
       +1h10m  specifies a range from 38.7654 seconds after 9:51PM PDT through
       38.7654 seconds after 11:01PM PDT.  The first hour of the file could be
       extracted using +0 +1h.

       Note that with the ymdhmsu format there is an ambiguity between using m
       for `month' or for `minute'.  The ambiguity is resolved as follows:  if
       an  m field is followed by a d field then it is interpreted as specify-
       ing months; otherwise it specifies minutes.

       If more than one input file is specified then tcpslice merges the pack-
       ets  from  the  various  input files into the single output file.  Nor-
       mally, this merge is done based on the value of the time stamps in  the
       packets  in  the  individual files.  (Tcpslice assumes that within each
       input file, packets are in time stamp order.)   If  the  -l  option  is
       used,  the  value used for ordering is the time stamp of a given packet
       minus the time stamp of the first packet in the input file in which the
       given packet occurs.

       When  merging  files,  by  default  tcpslice will discard any duplicate
       packet it finds in more than one file.  A duplicate is  a  packet  that
       has  an identical timestamp (either relative or absolute) and identical
       packet contents (for as much as was captured) as another packet  previ-
       ously  seen in a different file.  Note that it is possible for the net-
       work to generate true replicates of packets, and for systems  that  can
       return  the  same timestamp for multiple packets, these can be mistaken
       for duplicates and discarded.  Accordingly, tcpslice will  not  discard
       duplicates  in  the  same  trace file.  In addition, you can use the -D
       option to suppress any discarding of duplicates.

OPTIONS
       If any of -R, -r or -t are specified then tcpslice  reports  the  time-
       stamps  of  the  first  and  last packets in each input file and exits.
       Only one of these three options may be specified.

       -D     Do not discard duplicate  packets  seen  when  merging  multiple
              trace files.

       -d     Dump  the  start  and end times specified by the given range and
              exit.  This option is useful for checking that the  given  range
              actually  specifies  the times you think it does.  If one of -R,
              -r or -t has been specified then the times  are  dumped  in  the
              corresponding format; otherwise, raw format (-R) is used.

       -e     Specify  a  number  of seconds to wait after the last packet was
              seen before considering a session to be expired (default: 0 = do
              not  expire  inactive sessions). This is only effective when the
              -s option is used to track sessions.

       -f     Specify the name format of PCAP files to which each session will
              be  extracted  (default: NULL = do not extract sessions to sepa-
              rate files). This is only effective when the -s option  is  used
              to track sessions.

       -h     Print  the  tcpslice  and libpcap version strings, print a usage
              message, and exit.

       -l     When merging more than one file, merge on the basis of  relative
              time,  rather  than absolute time.  Normally, when merging files
              is done, packets are merged based on absolute time stamps.  With
              -l  packets  are  merged  based on the relative time between the
              start of the file in which the packet  is  found  and  the  time
              stamp  of  the  packet itself.  The time stamp of packets in the
              output file is calculated as the relative time  for  the  packet
              within its file plus first time.

       -R     Dump  the timestamps of the first and last packets in each input
              file as raw timestamps (i.e., in the form  sssssssss.uuuuuu).

       -r     Same as -R except the timestamps are  dumped  in  human-readable
              format, similar to that used by date(1).

       -s     Enable  session  tracking  for  the  specified  types which is a
              comma-separated list of the following:

              tcp    track all TCP connections

              sip    track SIP-based VoIP calls, which may enable tracking  of
                     TCP connections but only the ones that are related to SIP
                     calls.  This feature is only available  if  tcpslice  was
                     linked  against  Aymeric  Moizard's  GNU oSIP library; if
                     not,  install  the  latest  version  of   libosip2   from
                     https://www.gnu.org/software/osip/   and  recompile  tcp-
                     slice.

              h323   track H.323-based VoIP calls, which may  enable  tracking
                     of  TCP connections but only the ones that are related to
                     H.323 calls.  This feature is only available if  tcpslice
                     was  linked against Objective Systems' Open H.323 library
                     for C; if not, install the latest version  of  libooh323c
                     from https://sourceforge.net/projects/ooh323c/ and recom-
                     pile tcpslice.

              Session tracking altogether is only available  if  tcpslice  was
              linked against a recent version (>1.20) of Rafal Wojtczuk's Net-
              work Intrusion Detection System library;  if  not,  install  the
              latest  version  of libnids from http://libnids.sourceforge.net/
              and recompile tcpslice.

       -t     Same as -R except the timestamps are dumped in tcpslice  format,
              i.e., in the ymdhmsu format discussed above.

       -v     Turn on verbose mode. Currently this only affects session track-
              ing (-s) messages: if specified at least once, sessions openings
              and  closings  are  displayed regardless of the time (by default
              the closings are only displayed past end-time); if specified  at
              least  twice, subsessions (sessions initiated by other sessions)
              openings and closings are also displayed.

       -w     Direct the output to file rather than stdout.

SEE ALSO
       tcpdump(1)

AUTHORS
       The original author was:

       Vern Paxson, of Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory, University of California,
       Berkeley, CA.

       It is currently being maintained by The Tcpdump Group.

       The current version is available at:

              https://github.com/the-tcpdump-group/tcpslice

       The original distribution is available via anonymous ftp:

              ftp://ftp.ee.lbl.gov/tcpslice-1.2a3.tar.gz

BUGS
       Please send problems, bugs, questions, desirable enhancements, etc. to:

              tcpdump-workers@lists.tcpdump.org

       Please  send source code contributions as git pull requests through the
       project page above.

       An input filename that exactly  matches  the  sssssssss.uuuuuu  or  the
       ymdhmsu  format  discussed  above can be confused with a start/end time
       (regardless if the date and the time are valid  in  the  latter  case).
       Such filenames can be specified with a leading `./'; for example, spec-
       ify  the  file  `1976y07m04d'  as  `./1976y07m04d'  and  `00000123'  as
       `./00000123'.   Alternatively, renaming the files to `1976y07m04d.pcap'
       and `00000123.pcap' respectively would resolve this ambiguity.

       tcpslice cannot read its input from stdin, since it uses  random-access
       to rummage through its input files.

       tcpslice  refuses  to write to its output if it is a terminal (as indi-
       cated by isatty(3)).  This is not a bug but a feature,  to  prevent  it
       from spraying binary data to the user's terminal.  Note that this means
       you must either redirect stdout or specify an output file via -w.

       tcpslice will not work properly on pcap files spanning  more  than  one
       year;  with  files containing portions of packets whose original length
       was more than 65,535 bytes; nor with files containing  fewer  than  two
       packets.   Such files result in the error message: `couldn't find final
       packet in file'.  These problems are due to  the  interpolation  scheme
       used  by  tcpslice to greatly speed up its processing when dealing with
       large trace files.  Note that tcpslice can efficiently  extract  slices
       from  the  middle  of  trace  files of any size, and can also work with
       truncated trace files (i.e., the final packet in the file is only  par-
       tially present, typically due to tcpdump being ungracefully killed).

       Adding -l has broken some compatibility with older versions, since tcp-
       slice now merges its input files, rather than (approximately)  concate-
       nating them together as it did previously.

       It would sometimes be convenient if you could specify a clock offset to
       use with the -l option.

       It would be nice if tcpslice supported more general  editing  of  trace
       files.

                                 30 July 2020                      TCPSLICE(1)
